It has been quite some time since I tackled an issue here, so greetings to everyone reading this. I want to buttress the points made in the prior screenshots and I do not exempt myself from correction. Truth be told, our understanding of the Scriptures is fundamentally lacking. This is generally true about Christians in Nigeria from my observation (not specifically but I can't speak to others because I simply do not know). We have to ask ourselves, why is there such an abundance of false teachers? The institution of the church has turned into a transactional affair. People flock to churches that teach a false gospel; they run to churches that do not teach sound doctrine. We have made the work of the deceivers easy. We are lacking in righteous zeal. I'll address two core problems: 
- Desire not for Christ
- A shaky understanding of Scripture.


These problems are interwoven. One feeds into the other. To address the first, I can't help but notice that our prayers are heavily focused on earthly things. It is not bad to pray for money, success, etc but do we seek for the will of God to be done in our prayers? Do we pray for the edification of the saints? Do we pray for the body of Christ to increase in knowledge of the Word of God, in wisdom and in love? Are we primarily seeking the kingdom and its righteousness? When the Lord Jesus called us out of darkness into His light, when we were saved by grace, what is it that we were saved from? We were saved from the power of sin and death. But we still allow the lusts of the flesh to rule over us as though we were not set free. Some of us even live as though there is no God. We casually go about our days doing as we please with no remembrance for our Lord. In doing this we take the name of the Lord in vain since we call ourselves His children but show no semblance of such. This is a question of our desire. Are we diligently seeking God with our whole heart? Do we desire to be conformed to the image of Christ? Are we longing and eagerly waiting for His return? People run helter-skelter looking for breakthroughs and hoping to get wealthy through the intervention of a "powerful man of God" for example; Christianity is used as means to an end. And in doing this people are deceived in diverse ways by false teachers they have accumulated for themselves because of their passions (2 Timothy 4 issues a warning on this). And on the issue of seeking earthly things, Luke 12:34 tells us our heart is where our treasure lies. So how can we say we have a heart for God when we are more concerned with storing up earthly treasures (that will pass away no less)?

The second issue feeds into the first as well. If we do not know what the Scriptures say, then how do we know what our lives should look like as believers? How do we understand the finished work of Christ on the cross and what it means? Most importantly, how do we know who God is? That's why someone will come to you preaching a Jesus that doesn't exist and you will follow. The written words of the Bible form the very basis of our faith as Christians. We should NEVER adhere to any teaching that contradicts the teachings of scripture. Like the Bereans in Acts 17 who received the Word eagerly and examined the Scriptures DAILY to test what they had been taught. Although Jesus brought a charge against them, He commended the Ephesian church for testing people who falsely called themselves apostles and proving it so (Revelations 2:2). But even then how do we engage with the Scriptures? I ask because we have a bad habit of quoting scriptures in isolation. We read into the text and make it say what it isn't saying but what we want it to say. We do not see the scriptures as a unified testimony about Christ. These things were taught unfortunately and it's time for us to unlearn them. It goes without saying that if our desire is not for the Lord, then we can't diligently seek Him through scripture. All understanding of our faith comes primarily from it. We cannot know God–Father, Son and Holy Spirit apart from it. And indeed, the universal church has dealt with many issues since the days of the apostles. It has dealt with issues of theology and of morality. For example the church has dealt with issues on the nature of God. Some said Jesus was a created being, some said Jesus was a "man who became God", some said the Trinity is one person in 3 modes, and many other things. The church dealt with them standing on the foundation of scripture. A lot of these errant doctrines, some very deceptive in nature, are reappearing but to the untrained they appear fine. The writings of the church fathers and many who came after them are available for our learning.

We are living in the last days but we are not prepared or eagerly preparing for the coming of our Lord. We still struggle with elementary teachings. We are not grounded and are blown by every wind of doctrine. In the face of trials, we are ill-equipped. "It is written...", Jesus said in the face of temptation. As children we were taught this song, so simple yet so powerful: "Read your Bible, pray everyday if you want to grow...". Brothers and sisters let's turn our focus from perishable and unimportant things and pursue the eternal. I pray the love of God abounds in our hearts, that our minds never grow dull to the convictions of the Holy Spirit and that we receive grace and power to truly be representatives of Christ here on Earth and delight in doing His will.

Romans 12:2 ESV:
Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. 

Hebrews 12:1-2 ESV:
Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. 

Good night!❤️