For Ezekiel:
God is against it and “pronounced them unclean” because of it. We also see that God first gave them statutes “by which, if a man observes them, he will live.” This is what God wanted for them—life. But they rejected those statutes, returning to idols; and attached to those idols were statutes of death, by which they defiled themselves. They would not have statutes of life? Then, God says, here are your idols’ statues of death. God gave them over to these statutes of death so He could judge them for their evil through their own actions, showing that He is Lord and judgment awaits those who reject His life-giving commands. Romans 1:18–29 gives some insight. The “giving over” of cultures to do evil is part of God’s judgment. Just as God did not command the people of Romans 1 to murder, so He did not command the Israelites to burn their children in the fire. But He gave both over to the evil they desired so that “they might know that He is the Lord” through His judgment of that evil. Since His judgment proves He is against that evil, ironically, the Ezekiel passage is merely more evidence of God’s hatred of child sacrifice.

For the Aqedah:
It was a test of Abraham's devotion to God.

Judges:
Not only does Jephthah know the Law, but it seems like he raised his daughter to know the Law and fear the Lord. After finding out about her father’s vow, she says, “My father, you have given your word to the Lord; do to me as you have said, since the Lord has avenged you of your enemies, the sons of Ammon” (Judg. 11:36). Since Jephthah knew the Law of Moses, and even raised his daughter to know it, it seems odd he would disregard all the passages forbidding child sacrifice (Lev. 18:21, 20:3; Deut. 12:31, 18:10) and disregard the fact that the penalty for child sacrifice was death by stoning (Lev. 20:2). It is also odd Jephthah would disobey a clear command of God so he could obey a command of God.

The second clue can be found in the vow Jephthah made. In Hebrew, the letter Vav is used as a conjunction joining two parts of speech. In English, we have many different words that function as conjunctions. Not so in Hebrew. The one letter Vav represents multiple different conjunctions. It can mean “and,” “together with,” “but,” “so,” “then,” and “or.” Many scholars have translated this Vav conjunction as “or.”

If that’s the case, then Jephthah’s vow says, “Whatever comes out of the doors of my house…it shall be the LORD’s, or I will offer it up as a burnt offering” (Judg. 11:31). This vow could be interpreted to mean that if the first thing to come out of the house was appropriate to offer as a burnt offering, then Jephthah would offer it as a burnt sacrifice. However, if the first thing to come out of the house wasn’t appropriate to offer as a burnt sacrifice, “it shall be the Lord’s,” meaning it would be dedicated to the Lord.

The third clue helps us to clarify whether Jephthah’s daughter was offered as a burnt sacrifice or dedicated to the Lord. When she heard the vow her father made, Jephthah’s daughter asked to take two months to mourn her virginity. This is odd if she was going to be killed. Why not mourn her impending death? Why not marry a man for two months?

It seems plausible from the fact that Jephthah’s daughter mourned her virginity that she was going to be dedicated to the Lord and live as a perpetual virgin. This idea is also reinforced by how the text emphasizes her virginity as part of her father’s vow. “At the end of two months she returned to her father, who did to her according to the vow which he had made; and she had no relations with a man” (Judg. 11:39). This would have been a tremendous sacrifice on Jephthah’s part, considering he only had one child. By dedicating his daughter to the Lord, Jephthah wouldn’t have grandchildren to carry on his lineage. We see Hannah make a similar sacrificial vow to dedicate her child Samuel to the Lord (1 Sam. 1).

Micah:
He asks rhetorical questions exploring the question of what the LORD requires ultimately answering and making the point that God doesn't want sacrifices for the sake of sacrifices but rather righteous character.

Exodus:
First, Exodus 22:29–30. In order to understand what is meant by “give to me” in reference to firstborn sons, we need to look earlier in the book of Exodus where God gives the specifics of how this is to be done, for Exodus 22:29–30 only addresses when the command is to be carried out; it doesn’t contain the instructions on how to do it. For the instructions, we need to go back to Exodus 13:12–13
I don’t know how that could be clearer (and it’s repeated again in Exodus 34:20: “You shall redeem all the firstborn of your sons”). They are to sacrifice the animals, but redeem the sons. It helps to understand why God commanded this, which is explained in the verses immediately following, Exodus 13:14–15
These verses tie the firstborn-son command to God’s rescue of the Israelites in the Exodus. God was merciful to the firstborn of the Israelites by not destroying them along with the firstborn of the Egyptians, and as a result, now they all belong to Him. Exodus 13:1–2, the introduction to this chapter, explains:

Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, “Sanctify to Me every firstborn, the first offspring of every womb among the sons of Israel, both of man and beast; it belongs to Me.”

And just as God redeemed His sons from the death of the firstborn, so the Israelites are to redeem their sons. Chapter 13 sets all of this up immediately after the Israelites begin the Exodus. Child sacrifice fits neither with the specifics of these instructions, nor with the practice’s overall purpose of serving as a continual visual reminder of God’s redemption of the firstborn in the Exodus. If the Israelites had killed their firstborn, they would have been identifying their sons with the Egyptian firstborn who were killed under God’s judgment. That would obviously go against God’s stated purpose for commanding this in the first place.

